This timeline shows the ongoing progress of MAKERTEENS including initial idea, supports, red tape, development, and projects.

After inspiration and encouragement from leaders (see "_people_") in CTE and alternative education programs, the ideas took on a viable framework as expressed on the MAKERTEENS website.

**Criteria for Approval of Biennial Plan**  

*   (1) School districts and charter schools must prepare a biennial plan that addresses proposed spending of High School Graduation and College and Career Readiness Fund monies. School districts and charter schools may collaborate and submit one plan on behalf of multiple participants. ESDs may prepare a biennial plan on behalf of a consortium of school districts and charter schools.
*   (2) The biennial plan must
*   (a) Comply with the requirements of section 1, chapter 1, Oregon Laws 2017and rules adopted to implement section 1, chapter 1, Oregon Laws 2017;
*   (b) Cover a minimum of two years but may be longer;
*   (c) Address current data and analysis of contributing causes;
*   (d) Prioritize spending on programs that serve those students identified by the school district as most at-risk of not graduating or being college or career ready, historically and traditionally marginalized and historically underrepresented;
*   (e) Include plans to establish or expand upon current efforts by the school district or charter school with evidence-based practices in three areas:
*   (A) CTE programs in high schools;
*   (B) Access to college-level educational opportunities for students in high schools; and
*   (C) Drop-out prevention strategies in all high schools;
*   (f) Demonstrate coordination between the three areas of spending;
*   (g) Identify resources and specific strategies for historically and traditionally marginalized students and historically underrepresented students and demonstrate what will be accomplished;
*   (h) Identify supports for teachers, counselors, and administrators to implement specific strategies; and
*   (i) Identify projections for disaggregated targets related to graduation, student participation in CTE and dual credit, advanced placement, International Baccalaureate, or comparable college-level courses, improvements in attendance, and student progress towards career pathways.
*   (3) The deadline for biennial plan submission is July 1 of the first year of each biennium.
*   (4) The Oregon Department of Education must review biennial plans submitted by each district to determine whether the plan should be approved. Plans will be approved if they meet the requirements of (2) of this rule.

For clarification, contact CTE Specialist Reynold.Gardner@ode.state.or.us at 503-947-5615.
